[Music]
okay so as a laptop reviewer
i try my best to stay impartial i don't
have
brand loyalties i don't have preferences
for one company over another it really
is
you know what is the best option
available right now for someone looking
to buy a new device
and i've been called an apple fanboy in
some of my videos i've been called an
apple hater
in some of my videos sometimes both in
the same video
but i want to have a conversation today
about the apple
lineup the the m1 apple silicon based
stuff and this
is good hardware it's so good to the
point where it's actually
made it more difficult more complex to
purchase
a new device for a lot of people so
i want to draw your attention to the
base model macbook
the 999 macbook air so this
is a device that has an amazing battery
life like
11 to 12 hours of real world use this is
40 maybe 50
longer than a competing windows laptop
of the same kind of battery
size and when it comes to performance
the m1 chips are weirdly capable
even the fanless macbook air can keep up
with some of the best stuff out there
it's a very energy efficient platform
and also the screen like the macbook air
screen on a 999
device you're getting high resolution
400 nits
good color accuracy that kind of spec
does not appear on a
thousand dollar windows laptop you just
don't get good screens like that
at that price point there are some
hardware deficiencies though like the
macbooks they have a limited selection
of ports right now
the screens have uh no touch
capabilities and
the bezel is thick on it it's not a
particularly nice looking or new looking
device anymore
and there's very little user repair
repairability on this device but in
terms of the fundamentals the stuff that
really matters when it comes to
a laptop user the macbook just does it
really really well
now if you're an apple user or like a
long-term mac user then this is great
news right
even if you don't have apple silicon
right now in the future if you pick up a
device it's
gonna have apple silicon but for windows
users
this stuff is just too good to ignore
like if you are deeply entrenched in
windows
then you have no choice right but if
you're someone that can you could use a
windows device we have a preference for
windows or
your workflows just optimize around
windows or your apps are just
you know you just prefer windows for
whatever reason this
is where things get complicated so there
are some windows devices
out there that can match what the m1
macbook can do
in certain categories but none of them
can do it as an overall package
certainly not
at 999 and as a reviewer
i can't ignore this i can't pretend like
these windows devices exist in a vacuum
and like the macbooks don't exist it's
irresponsible it's like a windows fanboy
thing to do the other day i did a review
on the lg gram this is a great device
for someone looking for a super thin
super portable ultra lightweight device
and
i reviewed it from the perspective of a
windows user right if you are
someone who wants to buy a windows
laptop this is a great option
but then in the comments someone
mentioned that i didn't compare it to an
m1 macbook
and he's right i should have like when i
made the video
i put my mind into the mindset of
someone who's looking for a windows
device and usually
if you're looking for a windows device
you want a windows device right so i
didn't really
mix the two but then when i look at this
objectively take a step back and kind of
look at the bigger picture of this
this lg grant as great of a device as it
is
i would say that for most people who are
actually interested in picking up a gram
they're probably better off with a
macbook which is a painful thing for me
to say to someone who's trying to buy a
windows device especially
on this channel but that's just the
reality of the situation because the m1
macbooks
are so good right now they have great
battery life good performance
great screens excellent keyboards the
list goes on they're just
really good devices and then the rumors
point to 14 or 16 inch macbooks with
upgraded silicon new design language
mini led screens return of magsafe
more ports an sd card slot i'm sure
they'll be super expensive but
they'll be good and when i think about
it it seems like there's no
immediate or easy way for microsoft to
combat this certainly not with
x86 like you see what intel and amd have
come out with recently
those chips are really good but they
just
can't compete with the energy efficiency
of what m1
macbooks have to offer like and it's not
just hardware right it's
also software if you look at like the
surface pro x
and this is a product i wanted to do a
video on but
you'll understand a second why it didn't
this is a product from acer
it's the spin 7 but this has the
qualcomm chip in it like the
arm based windows laptop that is very
energy efficient
and this was a great product i mean
still it's
brand new i don't think this is on the
market yet but this doesn't have the
software to make
an ecosystem like this work and the
reality is
i don't think any other company could
have pulled this off like apple
can make this happen apple made this
happen because their rules are so strict
to their consumers their user base and
their developers it's like you have
these really strict rules that
if you follow them you can make cool
stuff like this because apple's
developers were almost forced to make
apps
for apple silicon like apple said hey
we're moving platforms and now there's
real
financial incentive to do this money is
a very powerful motivator but you can't
do that on windows there's no way
that windows would ever have this thing
microsoft could never be like hey we're
switching over to arm
and that's it you know there's no other
option that's that's never going to be a
thing at least
not in the near future so this could
have only happened
on apple's platform so here's the thing
apple's end game like their
at least immediate goal is to create
this platform where their hardware and
the software have this unified
ecosystem where everything just works in
this apple
way right and they're going to get there
this is a really big step towards it
if you're someone who actually considers
moving over to
apple's ecosystem and you're like a
regular windows user my suggestion is
this
if you want to make the swap over to
apple's hardware stick with apps that
are
multi-platform like universal so that
you know if for whatever reason down the
line if apple's hardware
goes sideways right and they're making
laser keyboards and weird stuff that you
don't
you don't particularly like you have the
option of leaving the ecosystem just
going back to
future windows laptops it could be four
or five years whatever it is but you at
least have that option you're not
contained and locked into like apple's
particular software
so that yeah i just
it's weird right as a reviewer it's
becoming harder and harder to recommend
windows devices
over what m1 macbooks offer and this is
only for this type of
like an ultrabook right stuff for work
or school or just like
productivity-based stuff
when it comes to gaming laptops that's a
whole different story like apple
gaming no but
okay you get the point all right hope
you guys enjoyed this video thumbs if
you liked it subs if you loved it
see you guys next time
[Music]